Reworked container guide to more closely match out PF setup (#198)
osg-htc/user-documentation: documentation/htc_workloads/containers/apptainer.md

---
ospool:

>   path: htc_workloads/containers/apptainer.md

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  path: htc_workloads/using_software/containers-singularity.md
```

---

This guide describes how to create your
own Apptainer/Singularity container "image" (the blueprint for the container).

For an overview and how to execute images on the OSPool, please see
[Containers - Overview][overview]

## Identify Components

What software do you want to install? Make sure that you have either the source
code or a command that can be used to install it through Linux (like `apt-get` or
`yum`).
    
You'll also need to choose a "base" container, on which to add your particular
software or tools.

We suggest using one of the following as base containers - these have common
packages installed as well as some OSPool specifics like OSDF:

```
hub.opensciencegrid.org/htc/debian:12
hub.opensciencegrid.org/htc/rocky:9
hub.opensciencegrid.org/htc/ubuntu:24.04
```

## Editing the Build Spec

> Create a folder on your computer and inside it, create a blank text file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a folder in your home directory and inside it, create a blank text file
```

called `image.def`.

The first lines of this file should include where to get the base image
from.  Then there is a section called `%post` where you put the additional
commands to make the image just like you need it. For example:

    Bootstrap: docker
    From: hub.opensciencegrid.org/htc/ubuntu:22.04

    %post

        # system packages
        apt-get update -y
        apt-get install -y \
                build-essential \
                wget

        # install miniconda
        wget https://repo.anaconda.com/miniconda/Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh
        bash Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh -b -f -p /opt/conda
        rm Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh

        # install conda components - add the packages you need here
        . /opt/conda/etc/profile.d/conda.sh
        conda create -y -n "myenv" python=3.9
        conda activate myenv
        conda update --all
        conda install -y -n "myenv" -c conda-forge pytorch

    %environment

        # set up environment for when using the container
        . /opt/conda/etc/profile.d/conda.sh
        conda activate myenv

>     Bootstrap: docker

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

>     From: hub.opensciencegrid.org/htc/ubuntu:24.04

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
